One of the main benefits of the cloud is that it allows you to
stop guessing about capacity when you need to run your applications.
When applications run in a traditional on-premises data center,
you have to buy your servers upfront.
Sometimes you buy too much,
or you don't buy enough to support the running of your applications.
With elasticity, your servers, databases,
and application resources can automatically scale up or scale down based on the load,
or how many users are using your applications at a given time.
Resources can scale up or vertically and Amazon EC2,
this can easily be achieved by stopping an instance
and resizing it to an instance type that has more RAM,
CPU, IO, etc., or you can scale
out or horizontally which increases the number of resources.
An example would be adding more servers.